#Select
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the name starts with A.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is between 100000 and 200000.

#Distinct 
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the distinct departments from the employees table.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the distinct salary values from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the distinct names from the employees table where the name starts with A.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the distinct salary values from the employees table where the salary is between 100000 and 200000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the distinct departments from the employees table where the department is not Sales.

#Where
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the name starts with A.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is between 100000 and 200000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000 and the department is Sales.

#And
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000 and the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the name starts with A and the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is between 100000 and 200000 and the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the name starts with A and the salary is between 100000 and 200000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000 or the department is Sales.

#OR
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000 or the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the name starts with A or the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is between 100000 and 200000 or the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the name starts with A or the salary is between 100000 and 200000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000 or the department is Sales or the name starts with A.

#NOT
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is not greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the department is not Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the name does not start with A.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is not between 100000 and 200000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000 and the department is not Sales.

#OrderBy
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table ordered by salary in ascending order.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table ordered by department in descending order.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table ordered by name in ascending order, and then by salary in descending order.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table ordered by salary in ascending order, but only the first 10 records.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table ordered by salary in ascending order, but only the records where the salary is greater than 100000.

#Insert Into
Write an SQL query to insert a new record into the employees table with the following values:
name: John Doe
salary: 100000
department: Sales
Write an SQL query to insert a new record into the employees table with the following values:
name: Jane Doe
salary: 200000
department: Marketing
Write an SQL query to insert a new record into the employees table with the following values:
name: Peter Smith
salary: 300000
department: Engineering
Write an SQL query to insert a new record into the employees table with the following values:
name: Mary Jones
salary: 400000
department: IT
Write an SQL query to insert a new record into the employees table with the following values:
name: David Brown
salary: 500000
department: Operations

#NULL
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is NULL.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the department is NULL.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the name is NULL.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is NULL or the department is NULL.
Write an SQL query to retrieve all the records from the employees table where the salary is NOT NULL.

#Update
Write an SQL query to update the salary of all employees to 100000.
Write an SQL query to update the department of all employees to Sales.
Write an SQL query to update the name of all employees to John Doe.
Write an SQL query to update the salary of all employees where the department is Sales to 200000.
Write an SQL query to update the department of all employees where the name is John Doe to Marketing.

#Delete 
Write an SQL query to delete all the records from the employees table.
Write an SQL query to delete all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to delete all the records from the employees table where the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to delete all the records from the employees table where the name starts with A.
Write an SQL query to delete all the records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000 or the department is Sales.

#Select Top
Write an SQL query to retrieve the top 10 records from the employees table ordered by salary in descending order.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the top 5 records from the employees table where the department is Sales ordered by name in ascending order.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the top 3 records from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000 ordered by department in descending order.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the top 2 records from the employees table where the name starts with A ordered by salary in ascending order.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the top 1 record from the employees table where the department is Sales and the salary is greater than 100000 ordered by name in ascending order.

#MIN
Write an SQL query to retrieve the minimum salary from the employees table.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the minimum salary from the employees table where the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the minimum salary from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the minimum salary from the employees table where the name starts with A.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the minimum salary from the employees table where the department is Sales and the salary is greater than 100000.

#Max
Write an SQL query to retrieve the maximum salary from the employees table.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the maximum salary from the employees table where the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the maximum salary from the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the maximum salary from the employees table where the name starts with A.
Write an SQL query to retrieve the maximum salary from the employees table where the department is Sales and the salary is greater than 100000.

#Count
Write an SQL query to count the number of records in the employees table.
Write an SQL query to count the number of records in the employees table where the department is Sales.
Write an SQL query to count the number of records in the employees table where the salary is greater than 100000.
Write an SQL query to count the number of records in the employees table where the name starts with A.
Write an SQL query to count the number of records in the employees table where the department is Sales and the salary is greater than 100000.

#Avg 
What is the average age of all employees in the company?
What is the average salary of all employees in the sales department?
What is the average number of sales made per month by all sales representatives?
What is the average time it takes to process a customer order?
What is the average number of customer complaints received per week?

#Sum
What is the total sales for the month of January?
What is the total number of products sold in the last quarter?
What is the total amount of money spent on marketing in the past year?
What is the total number of customers who have signed up for the newsletter?
What is the total number of website visits in the last week?

#Like
Find all customers whose names start with the letter "A".
Find all products whose names contain the word "computer".
Find all orders that were placed in the month of January.
Find all employees who were born in the 1980s.
Find all customers who have made a purchase in the last 30 days.

#Wildcards
Find all customers whose names start with the letter "A".
Find all products whose names contain the word "computer".
Find all orders that were placed in the month of January.
Find all employees who were born in the 1980s.
Find all customers who have made a purchase in the last 30 days.
Find all customers whose names start with the letter "A" and end with the letter "s".
Find all products whose names contain the word "computer" and are less than 10 characters long.
Find all orders that were placed in the month of January and were for more than $100.
Find all employees who were born in the 1980s and are still employed by the company.
Find all customers who have made a purchase in the last 30 days and have spent more than $100.

#IN
Find all customers who live in the United States.
Find all products that are made in China.
Find all orders that were placed by customers who are over the age of 18.
Find all employees who work in the sales department.
Find all customers who have made a purchase in the last 30 days and have spent more than $100.

#Between
Find all customers whose ages are between 18 and 25.
Find all products whose prices are between $100 and $200.
Find all orders that were placed between January 1st and March 31st.
Find all employees who were hired between 2010 and 2020.
Find all customers who have made a purchase in the last 30 days and have spent between $100 and $200.

#Aliases
Find the average age of all customers and name the alias "avg_age".
Find the total sales for the month of January and name the alias "total_sales".
Find the number of products that are sold in the last quarter and name the alias "num_products".
Find the number of employees who are over the age of 18 and name the alias "num_employees".
Find the total amount of money spent on marketing in the past year and name the alias "total_marketing_spend".

#Joins
Find all customers and their orders.
Find all products and their suppliers.
Find all employees and their managers.
Find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is made in China.
Find all employees who have worked on a project that is over budget.

#Inner Join
Find all customers who have placed an order.
Find all products that have been ordered.
Find all employees who have worked on a project.
Find all projects that have been worked on by employees.
Find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is made in China.

#Left join
Find all customers and their orders, even if the customer has not placed any orders.
Find all products and their suppliers, even if the product is not supplied by any supplier.
Find all employees and their managers, even if the employee does not have a manager.
Find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is made in China, even if the customer has not placed any other orders.
Find all employees who have worked on a project that is over budget, even if the employee has not worked on any other projects.

#Right Join
Find all orders and their customers, even if the customer has not placed any orders.
Find all products and their suppliers, even if the product is not supplied by any supplier.
Find all employees and their managers, even if the employee does not have a manager.
Find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is made in China, even if the product has not been ordered by any other customers.
Find all employees who have worked on a project that is over budget, even if the project has not been worked on by any other employees.

#Full Join
Find all customers and their orders, including customers who have not placed any orders and orders that have not been placed by any customers.
Find all products and their suppliers, including products that are not supplied by any supplier and suppliers that do not supply any products.
Find all employees and their managers, including employees who do not have a manager and managers who do not have any employees.
Find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is made in China, including customers who have not placed any other orders and products that have not been ordered by any other customers.
Find all employees who have worked on a project that is over budget, including employees who have not worked on any other projects and projects that have not been worked on by any other employees.

#Self Join
Find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is made in China.
Find all products that have been ordered by more than one customer.
Find all employees who have worked on the same project.
Find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is also ordered by their manager.
Find all employees who have worked on a project that is also worked on by their manager.

#Union
Write a SQL query to combine the data from the customers and orders tables.
Write a SQL query to combine the data from the products and categories tables, and remove any duplicate rows.
Write a SQL query to combine the data from the employees and departments tables, and order the results by the employee's name.
Write a SQL query to combine the data from the sales and customers tables, and calculate the total sales for each customer.
Write a SQL query to combine the data from the products and reviews tables, and only include products that have at least 5 stars.

#Groupby
Write a SQL query to find the number of customers in each country.
Write a SQL query to find the average order value for each product category.
Write a SQL query to find the most popular product by sales volume.
Write a SQL query to find the least popular product by sales volume.
Write a SQL query to find the average salary for each department.

#Having
Write a SQL query to find the countries with more than 100 customers.
Write a SQL query to find the product categories with an average order value of more than $100.
Write a SQL query to find the products with more than 100 units sold.
Write a SQL query to find the departments with an average salary of more than $100,000.
Write a SQL query to find the customers who have placed more than 10 orders.

#Exists
Write a SQL query to find all customers who have placed an order.
Write a SQL query to find all products that have been ordered.
Write a SQL query to find all customers who have placed an order for a product in a specific category.
Write a SQL query to find all products that have been ordered by a customer in a specific country.
Write a SQL query to find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is on sale.

#Any
Write a SQL query to find the top 10 most popular products.
Write a SQL query to find the average salary for each department.
Write a SQL query to find the most recent order placed by each customer.
Write a SQL query to find the number of orders placed by each customer in the past month.
Write a SQL query to find the products that have been ordered by more than 100 customers.

#all
Write a SQL query to find all customers who have placed an order for a product in a specific category.
Write a SQL query to find all products that have been ordered by a customer in a specific country.
Write a SQL query to find all customers who have placed an order for a product that is on sale.
Write a SQL query to find the top 10 most popular products.
Write a SQL query to find the average salary for each department.


#Selectinto
Write a SQL query to create a new table called customers_with_orders that contains the customer name and order id from the customers and orders tables.
Write a SQL query to create a new table called products_in_stock that contains the product name and quantity in stock from the products and inventory tables.
Write a SQL query to create a new table called sales_by_month that contains the month, total sales, and average sales for each month from the sales table.
Write a SQL query to create a new table called top_selling_products that contains the product name, quantity sold, and total sales for the top 10 selling products from the sales table.
Write a SQL query to create a new table called customers_with_pending_orders that contains the customer name and order id from the customers and orders tables where the order status is pending.

#insert into
Write a SQL query to insert all customers from the customers table into a new table called new_customers.
Write a SQL query to insert all products from the products table into a new table called new_products where the product price is greater than $100.
Write a SQL query to insert all orders from the orders table into a new table called new_orders where the order date is in the current month.
Write a SQL query to insert all customers from the customers table into a new table called new_customers where the customer name starts with the letter A.
Write a SQL query to insert all products from the products table into a new table called new_products where the product category is electronics.

#case
Write a query to find the total number of orders placed by each customer.
Write a query to find the average order value for each product category.
Write a query to find the top 10 customers who have placed the most orders.
Write a query to find the products that have been ordered the most times.
Write a query to find the customers who have placed orders in the past 3 months.

#Null
Write a query to find all the customers who have a null value in their email column.
Write a query to find all the products that have a null value in their price column.
Write a query to find all the orders that have a null value in their order_date column.
Write a query to find all the customers who have a null value in their email column, but do not have a null value in their phone column.
Write a query to find all the products that have a null value in their price column, but do not have a null value in their quantity column.








